# Revenue_analysis

As one of my technical assesments I have received some 'fake' Revenue for analysis. 

In general usage, Revenue is the total amount of income generated by the sale of goods or services related to the company's primary operations Sales revenue is income received from selling goods or services over a period of time. 

Revenue is a crucial part of financial statement analysis. The company's performance is measured to the extent to which its asset inflows (revenues) compare with its asset outflows (expenses). Unfortunetly i didnt have any other financial data to create and calculate metrics for detailed analysis, I had to analys just revenue itself. The dataset that I have received has two columns _(“Date” and “Revenue”)_. The observation period of our imaginary company is from _01.01.2019 until 28.04.2021._ 

## Seasonality 

Seasonality refers to fluctuations in your sales revenue that are caused by external factors and occur on a predictable schedule around the same time(s) every year. It’s hard or even impossible to control seasonal shifts in consumer behaviour, but being aware of seasonality the company can capitalize on its strong cycles and survive its slow periods.
By applying on dataset **‘statsmodel.api’** Ive manage to have some overview of our possible seasonality. 

 
## Metricts of Revenue analysis

- Revenue Growth Rate

 Revenue Growth Rate is an indicator of how well a company is able to grow its sales revenue over a given time period. While the revenue is an actual number, the revenue growth rates simply compare the current sales figures (total revenue) with a previous period (typically quarter to quarter or year to year).

 - MoM 

 MoM (Month-over-Month) changes in levels expressed with respect to the previous month. MoM measures tend to be more volatile as they are more affected by one-time events (e.g. stock market crash, natural disasters, months with many working days, months with many people on vacation, etc.). However, this indicator may sometimes give misleading results, particularly when a long-term plan or potential estimation is being done. Hence, we should note the shortcomings of this indicator and use it with similar indicators such as QoQ and YoY.
 
 - QoQ

 QoQ (Quarter-over-Quarter) figures calculate change compared to the previous financial quarter, such as comparing Q2 with Q1 of this year. Although many figures are released monthly, many important indicators are released on a quarterly basis, such as GDP (gross domestic product). QoQ will tend to be more volatile than Year-over-Year figures but less volatile than MoM numbers. In our case, we can see that QoQ revenue is slower, but it’s still growing. By comparing the same quatres in different years, it is possible to draw accurate comparisons despite the seasonal nature of consumer behaviour.

- YoY 

YoY (Year-over-Year) figures report the changes in a year’s worth of data, in comparison with the previous year. YoY incorporates more data and thus is able to give a better long-term picture of the underlying report figure. By comparing the same month in different years, it is possible to draw accurate comparisons despite the seasonal nature of consumer behaviour. Despite decreasing year-over-year earnings,  the stable growth of the company’s revenue, the overall outlook is favourable

## Forecasting

In order to predict the growth of revenue I have compared two models. 

- **Autoregressive (AR)** modeling is one of the technique used for time-series analysis that uses observations from previous time steps as input to a regression equation to predict the value at the next time step.
- **SARIMA(‘Seasonal Auto Regressive Integrated Moving Average’)** suitable for time series data with trend and/or seasonal component. I have used this article https://www.bounteous.com/insights/2020/09/15/forecasting-time-series-model-using-python-part-one/ by _By Vera Shao_ as my guide line
